Suspicion on the expenses of the treasury secretary's trip around solar eclipse has raised this question again: is the space owned by a few powerful figures or by the international community?

Outer Space Treaty
(https://www.state.gov/t/isn/5181.htm) is the only effective treaty that governs activities in outer space.
Under this treaty, the outer space including the moon and other celestial bodies is shared by the whole international community. The Treaty bans States from claiming territories in space, and from deploying nuclear weapons or weapons of mass destruction in it.  The outer space is used by States regardless of their social or economic influence, and its exploration is intended for the benefit of all countries. Significant international cooperation such as the International Space Station has been made since this treaty entered into force. 

So if Asgardia is recognized as a State by the United Nations, which means a State can claim territory in space, then the Outer Space Treaty’s intention of keeping the space as an international resource may be compromised. After all, if one bilionaire can create an Asgardia, it won’t be difficult for other bilionaires to create Asjedi, Asjoda, or some other bizarrely named Space Nations, all they have to do is to gather some data from people and send them into space with a satellite.

It is fair to say it’s a cool thing to hold a passport issued from the space, but will governments in such Space Nations be effective or will they become tax havens for very rich people, while the rest of their promises, such as religious freedom and non-discrimination, become as void as the outer space? What will happen when Asgardians are able to be sent to a platform in the space, while other earthly citizens have to watch them flying over their heads? Will there be more wars on Earth because people are eager to get a ticket into space? Will there even be wars in the colonies in space? All these questions remain to be answered in the future.
